In this lecture, we are going to be using Chron to schedule jobs on our server.
There are no new configuration files in this lecture.
The commands we are going to be using in this lecture, crosstab hyphen L is to list the current users
cron jobs.
Crosstab hyphen E is used to create a new cron job.
If the command you would like to schedule requires route privileges, you must create a route current
job by using Sudo crosstab Ifni Chron allows you to schedule and automate tasks.
You can run certain commands at a date and time that you specify.
An important part of using Chron is to understand how the schedule works.
It's broken up as follows.
You have five esoterics.
That is where you specify the minutes, the hours, day of the month, month, day of the week.
Then you have your pass to your shell slash, burn, slash S.H. Then you specify the command you would
like to run.
And finally, if you would like to redirect the output of the current job, you specify that after your
command.
Now the first five esoterics, the first one is where you specify the minutes.
The allowed values are zero to fifty nine.
The second S6 is where you specify hours.
The allowed values are zero to twenty three.
The third extricates is the day of the month.
The allowed values are one to thirty one.
The fourth Strix is the month.
The allowed values are one to twelve.
The last Asterix is the day of the week.
The allowed values are zero two six zero being Sunday and six being Saturday.
I want to run a particular command at five thirty a.m. every day minutes I would type thirty hours.
I would type five day of the month, month and day of the week.
I leave as an Asterix so every day at five thirty a.m. the command I specify will run another example
zero six six six six zero minutes.
Hours six.
This command will run at zero minutes, six hours.
So this command will run at six a.m..
I haven't specified day of the month, I haven't specified a month, but I've specified a day of the
week as six.
So every Saturday at six am, the command I specify will run minutes, zero hours three.
So this command will run at three am day of the month, the seventh day of the month.
I haven't specified a month.
I haven't specified the day of the week.
So the command I specify will run at 3am on the seventh day of every single month.
If you want to run a certain command every few hours or minutes, Asterix forward slash six under hours
will run whichever command I specify every six hours.
If I look at the time five thirty am slash burn slash is the path to my shell.
The command that will run slash home slash Andrew dbi dot s h.
That is how you specify the command.
You create a Besch script and in the section command you specify the path to that particular script.
The redirect slash dev slash now to greater than ampersand one.
Every time a cron job runs, mail is sent to the user who created that particular job.
Now this can get quite annoying at times.
Redirecting the output of Chron to slash dev slash now will redirect it to nothing.
You will receive no confirmation.
In this lecture we looked at configuring Chron to schedule events on your server.